#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams-bytype
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 0.9in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 0.9in
\bottommargin 1.3in
\headheight 0in
\headsep 0in
\footskip 0.75in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
One for Two
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tim Min
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
\emph on
Note
\series default
\emph default
: 
\emph on
This was originally written for an English competition back in 2014.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Few people can say that they were most accomplished at the age of five.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even so for child prodigies; the accomplishments of geniuses seldom stop
 at a young age.
 With his earliest compositions surprising even his father, the five year
 old Mozart had no problem defining a new, volatile musical era; Caruana’s
 tournament appearances for chess at the age of five never stopped him from
 attaining the rank of grandmaster before he turned fourteen; the legends
 surrounding Gauss adding up every number from one to a hundred at the age
 of five are only a small part of his significant legacy in the worlds of
 number theory and geometry.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With childhood being the apparent bud of larger successes of the future,
 it is rather easy to start thinking, or even believing, that adulthood
 is the time of true knowledge and understanding.
 Perpetualized by images of the naïve, angsty teen and of the wise, all-knowing
 old man, the perceived positive correlation between age and capability
 has little counter-evidence and an abundance of supporting cases.
 But between a young child and his older and “wiser” counterpart, which
 one is more likely to be mesmerized by the first snowfall of winter, by
 a fireworks display, by a colourful packet of pills lying on a table? Is
 it not rather expected that the young, curious child would ask about why
 every snowflake is different, why they see the pretty explosions before
 they hear it, why they have a tummy ache when they try some of those small
 capsules in the medicine cabinet? Would the adult not begin to answer,
 as to not disappoint their young student? But then, does the adult know
 everything about water bonds and crystallization? Does the adult know everythin
g about waves and the electromagnetic spectrum? Does the adult know everything
 about the digestive, immune, and circulatory systems? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No, most likely not.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Does the adult ask anyone for more knowledge? Does the adult, in his realization
 that he does not know enough, make a resolve to learn more? Does the adult
 become humbled that the child could think to ask “Why?” when they themselves
 did not consider doing so? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No, most likely not.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And what is the most notorious response that these types of conceited, self-cons
cious adults give to the child who have the courage to ask such profound
 questions? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Because that’s how things work.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So, adults who are too afraid to ask questions inspire a new generation
 of people who think the most heinous of crimes is to admit ignorance.
 To ask questions.
 To learn more.
 Instead of allowing children to thrive in a free, beautiful, open world,
 our societies are keeping those children in captivity, depriving them of
 the radiant sunlight of truth.
 First break a generation, and then expect them to lead the future.
 The engine of failure continues.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The easiest solution, it seems, is to educate our friends and neighbours
 who are neglecting not only the curiosity of the young generation, but
 also that of themselves.
 But then, another brick wall pops up: “Do you think I’m stupid? Don’t tell
 me what to do.
 I already know.
 Stop bothering me.” People are not only becoming more and more afraid of
 asking questions, but also becoming more and more hostile towards the charity
 of knowledge that is being offered to them.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No more penny for your thoughts.
 Keep your two cents.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is quite interesting (and perhaps depressing) what the value on the exchange
 of knowledge is.
 A penny for your thoughts? Giving your two cents? In a world where prices
 are soaring, where even insignificant things are becoming more and more
 out of reach, something as fundamental as knowledge is traded at cent values?
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let us think for a minute: If a thought costs a penny, and a thought is
 worth two cents...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Imagine economists and businessmen laughing when they hear that paying a
 cent for two is what will make the world prosper.
 But, quite frankly, we get the last laugh, because a balance in a savings
 account is worth an infinitesimal amount of the investment we can all put
 into having a more educated, more inspired, more successful generation
 of leaders.
 The real get-rich-quick scheme, the ultimate arbitrage, is to be willing
 to give a cent for two.
 To be willing to give appreciation to those who are enriching us.
 To be able to cast away some of our pride to be able to unlock greater
 truths.
 This is not prosperity that can be stripped away by a bank closing down,
 mind you; this is prosperity that makes every day one filled with childish
 wonder and awe.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you won the lottery this instant, you could probably buy everything you
 ever wanted.
 Or so you thought.
 While sitting in front of that new grand piano, can you play it? While
 looking through the telescope in your new observatory, can you name the
 stars in the night sky? While on your new island getaway, can you jump
 into the ocean and start swimming? While having everything you thought
 you ever wanted, do you feel truly complete? Money can only buy happiness
 to a point.
 Up to the point where you wish you could sit down and play some Beethoven
 for your friends, where you wish you could explore the Universe through
 a lens, where you wish you could discover a whole new world right underneath
 the surface of the water.
 Those 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

two cents
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 are the sort of happiness that money alone cannot give you, while costing
 no more than that imaginary penny.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is time for us to all find the buried treasure right around us.
 Everyone around you is brimming with the two cents you want, and you yourself
 are full of facts and tricks that more people than you think would spare
 at least a penny for.
 Even as participants in a more and more unstable economy, we are all blessed
 beyond measure with boundless wealth.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On every billboard, on every news outlet, on posters on every lamppost on
 every street, two proclamations should be proudly displayed: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“To everyone afraid to ask: Do not be! Do not hold your pennies! Give them
 out to the ones in the world who can inspire and change you! What you give,
 you will get back twofold!
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“To everyone afraid to teach: Do not be! Spare just two cents! Give to those
 less fortunate than you! Be part of a society that is proud to be generous!
 What you give 
\emph on
will
\emph default
 make a difference!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The economics of giving and taking knowledge is quite complex.
 In the “real” world, a cent given is a cent lost.
 Two cents is two times one cent.
 But in the exchange of knowledge, what is given is never lost, and what
 is received is always worth the price.
 When we reach the end of the day, what we remember is not what we lost,
 but rather what we gained in return.
 The happiness of the fading child in our hearts continues to inspire us
 to become better people.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When we were five, we all had dreams of one day understanding the world
 around us.
 Where has that daily wonderment gone? What happened to admiring the magnificent
 world around us? There might have never been a time in our lives where
 we loved everything about everything as much as when were were five; we
 may never be able to look at every fluttering butterfly, every passing
 car, every breathtaking sunset with as much awe and curiosity as we did
 back in the days of endless questions with even more potential answers.
 The first years of a child’s life can never be redone.
 As a society, we must work together to make every single person quick to
 question and enthusiastic in sharing the answers they have.
 Maybe one day in the near future, we will stop using the terms genius and
 prodigy to describe something special; maybe five year olds who change
 history will become a usual occurrence.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To think that such a bright future is worth but two cents and might not
 even cost a single penny.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
