#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams-bytype
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 0.9in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 0.9in
\bottommargin 1.3in
\headheight 0in
\headsep 0in
\footskip 0.75in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Concept for Musical/Play - Canadaise
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tim Min
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
This is a sketch for a potential stage production.
 It seeks to explore both the Canadian identity and showcase classical music.
 Winning entry of a high school prose competition.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
François “Frank” Fontana is a seventeen year old boy of Polish descent (third
 generation) who attends a high school in the “uncultured” province of Ontario,
 Canada.
 He is contemptuous of other Canadians for their assimilated lifestyles,
 and strictly follows the social customs that his parents and his grandparents
 have presented to him as “Polish”.
 A budding pianist, Frank is very fond of music in the “Polish” style and
 is constantly trying to learn and perfect the famous Polonaises.
 His extreme nationalism has estranged him from most of his peers, though
 Georgia Sable, an adopted and “white-washed” girl of Asian descent is willing
 to listen to his pro-Polish musings and admires his passionate piano playing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Frank decides he has had enough of the shitty country called Canada and
 buys a plane ticket to Poland after selling all of his belongings.
 Georgia is distressed that she never got to say goodbye and she laments
 to her friends.
 However, in the middle of her sorrow, an unexpected guest enters.
 It is a penniless Frank, who upon arriving in Poland realizes that his
 motherland had changed in the three generations his family has been gone
 and is broken-hearted that his country has been tainted.
 He decides that he has had enough of Polish music, and sets out to reconcile
 with his fellow Canadians by writing a truly Canadian piece of music: the
 Canadaise.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Frank is so confident in his ability to discover the perfect Canadaise that
 he gets special permission from his school to give a special performance
 on graduation night.
 Georgia tells Frank that he is crazy for thinking he can invent a whole
 genre in a matter of months; they argue and end their conversation on a
 sour note.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Frank has to sneak into university practice rooms to practice, as he had
 sold his piano to buy his plane ticket for Poland.
 In the university rooms, as he toils to discover the perfect embodiment
 of Canadian music, many students walk by and say their views on music and
 life.
 Frank is impressed at these people, but mistakes them for foreigners.
 In a fit of rage, he cries that he would be so much farther if 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

outsiders
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 didn't keep distracting him from his work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When he finds out that all of these people consider themselves Canadian,
 he is surprised and moved.
 He realizes he is not the only person who is trying to be part of the Canadian
 identity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Georgia has troubles identifying with her friends, because she realizes
 that she doesn't feel Asian despite being ethnically Asian.
 When her friends find out that she is very behind in her math and physics
 courses, they rebuke her for not taking school seriously and living up
 to the Asian ideal.
 Angrily, she plays a vigorous and dissonant piece on the piano then tells
 them to try emulating that with their school smarts.
 Her friends, stunned by the sudden uncharacteristic outburst, leave Georgia,
 who cries alone about how much she wants to be the typical Asian girl and
 curses her biological parents for not wanting to raise her.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Frank calls Georgia, and apologizes for their unresolved argument and tells
 her his discovery about the Canadian identity: that the identity of Canada
 was that every identity could live in harmony.
 This uplifts Georgia, who learns to accept her life as an adoptee.
 At the end of the call, she confesses to Frank and asks if he would go
 to the prom with her.
 He accepts, but tells her that he can only ever love her as a friend.
 This is enough for Georgia, who just wanted to know that Frank values their
 bond.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the prom, Georgia tries to push Frank to dance, but he seems to have
 something on his mind.
 Georgia ends up having to sit alone after Frank suddenly goes to do something.
 She reconciles with her friends at prom, and as they share a group hug
 Georgia hears a familiar tune play.
 Frank comes back and said he suggested “I’m Always Chasing Rainbows” since
 it was the only popular piece he knew.
 They dance while talking about how much closer they have gotten over the
 years.
 He mentions that he finally knows what to do about the Canadaise, but refuses
 to give any more details and says to instead wait for graduation day.
 After Frank takes Georgia home after prom, Georgia hugs Frank, who doesn't
 reciprocate at first but eventually does to calm Georgia who is evidently
 worried and uncertain about the future.
 She asks for a kiss, and he reluctantly says yes.
 However, at the last moment he says he can’t do it because he doesn't feel
 the same way about her yet.
 She tells him to just lie for the evening, and so Frank tells her he loves
 her before they share a kiss.
 As he walks away from Georgia’s house to his car, Georgia’s friends, who
 were watching the while time, ask him what he thinks of Georgia.
 He runs away instead of going into his car, but yells that he will inevitably
 fall in love with her.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On graduation night, Georgia is more nervous about Frank’s performance than
 about her own valedictorian address.
 When the time comes for Frank to play, he walks up to the piano, plays
 random dissonant notes, and announces that he did not manage to write a
 Canadaise because he found out that there is no defined Canadian musical
 form.
 The student body, which already have a bad impression of Frank, is offended
 and becomes worked up.
 They start shouting insults at Frank to go back to where he came from.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Georgia intervenes by starting her address (which she titled 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Born in Beijing
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

), which mentioned the search for identity she had to go through and how
 Frank’s words about the Canadian identity inspired her to embrace herself
 for who she is.
 When she concludes, she receives a standing ovation.
 Amid the clapping, Frank sits down on the piano and plays a Polonaise.
 When he finishes, no one claps because they are so stunned by his playing.
 He tells everyone that he now knows that the only way to truly fit the
 Canadian identity is to stay true to yourself and that although he no longer
 feels truly Polish, he will still always love his heritage.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At an end-of-year party, Frank anxiously waits for Georgia with a ring,
 as he plans to propose before he goes to music school and Georgia goes
 to Stanford to study liberal arts.
 Instead, Georgia’s friends arrive hurriedly with a note from Georgia saying
 she already left for Stanford early because she wanted it to hurt less
 when she left by not seeing Frank for a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

last time
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Frank resolves to learn to accept his true self and eventually discover
 the perfect Canadaise so that when Georgia returns he can confidently ask
 her for her hand in marriage.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In an ending scene, Georgia unpacks her baggage in her new dorm room and
 discovers that the table which was supposed to be in her room was accidentally
 replaced with a piano.
 She is about to go to ask for the issue to be resolved, but instead sits
 down to play the middle section of Fantaisie-Impromptu, the source material
 of “I’m Always Chasing Rainbows”.
 She doesn't finish because she can't stop crying.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
