#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams-bytype
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 0.9in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 0.9in
\bottommargin 1.3in
\headheight 0in
\headsep 0in
\footskip 0.75in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
In Light of the Ghomeshi Trial Aftermath
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tim Min
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After following the Ghomeshi trial, I thought up a little mental experiment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let's say there are five people, and it ends up being that exactly four
 must have participated in a crime, while the last person is completely
 innocent and separated.
 It is highly unlikely a body of evidence could result in this situation,
 but bear with me.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Is it better to convict all of them - thus making sure all wrong is punished
 but one innocent is unfairly implicated - or to convict none of them -
 thus making sure innocents are never implicated, but surely letting four
 wrongdoers go?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How would this change based on the number of people and the balance?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The reason why I post this question is this: Is it better to always request
 a "smoking gun" or absolute victim credibility in trials of this nature
 to always ensure correct convictions, or is it better to side with complainants
 to make sure they are not unfairly being dismissed because of various societal
 views on victims? It's a really tough philosophical question: is it better
 to hurt innocents in punishing the guilty, or to spare the guilty in protecting
 the innocent?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I must say I am siding (and in some ways regrettably) with the latter.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
